# 20260107

Today, I continue learned from [netninja.dev](https://netninja.dev) in the Git & GitHub Masterclass to refresh my skills about GitHub in general.

## What I learned today

- When you're working to something new, you don't want to do it on the main branch, instead, you need to create a branch. It is recommended and standard practice when working with git. So it's extra layer of the codebase and make the codebase more cleaner.
- `git status`
- `git branch` to list all the branch in your prject. `git branch <branch_name>` will create a new branch.
- `git switch <branch_name>` to switch to that branch. To switch back to `main` type `git switch main`.
- Rather doing all the command step by step, we can do it all at once by typing `git switch -c <branch_name>`, the `-c` flag is stands for create.
- You can also use `git checkout main`, but `checkout` command is not only for switching branch. It's a new feature introduced in the git.
- We're doing exercise where we create `feature-newsletter`, then we create a section html for that newsletter and add style for it. Then we check the changes on that branch using `git log --oneline` this commit can only be seen in this branch.
- SO basically branch add:
  - Feredom to experiment
  - WOrk on multiple featuers at the same time
  - Keeps commit history cleaner
  - Easy to review
- A merging is a way to combine the feature we make in seperate branch into the main branch. So all the code in that branch will appear on the main branch as well.
- If we want to merge, we go to the main branch then type `git merge <branch_name>`. It will be a "Fast-forward" merge.
